Bb chapter 6 (#696)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/chapters/chapter6/feature_selection.qmd

#| fig-alt: "A web graph with one element at the bottom, four on the second row, six on third row, four on fourth row and one on fifth (top) row. Each element consists of four numbers, 0s and 1s to represent the selected (1) and unselected (0) features. The diagram is covered to suggest the optimal path was '0000' -> '1000' -> '1010' -> '1011' -> '1111'."
include_multi_graphics("mlr3book_figures-16")
```

Wrapper methods can be used with any learner, but need to train or even resample the learner potentially many times, leading to a computationally intensive method.
All wrapper methods are implemented via the package `r mlr3fselect`.

::: {.callout-tip}

## Feature Selection and HPO

The wrapper-based feature selection explained above is very similar to the black box optimization approach in HPO (@sec-optimization), see also @fig-optimization-loop-basic. The major difference is that we search for well-performing feature subsets instead of hyperparameter configurations.

> This similarity is not only true in terms of underlying concepts and structure, but also with respect to mlr3 classes and API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This similarity is not only true in terms of underlying concepts and structure, but also with respect to `mlr3` classes and API.
```

The API is in many places nearly identical, we can use the same terminators, results are logged into an archive in a similar fashion to tuning, and we can also optimize multiple performance measures to create Pareto-optimal solutions in a similar way
:::

### Simple Forward Selection Example {#sec-fs-wrapper-example}

> We start with the simple example from above and do sequential forward selection with `tsk("penguins")`, Similar to how the sugar function `r ref("tune()")` shown in @sec-autotuner works, we can use `r ref('fselect()', aside = TRUE)` to directly start the optimization and select features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start with the simple example from above and do sequential forward selection with `tsk("penguins")`, similarly to how the sugar function `r ref("tune()")` shown in @sec-autotuner works, we can use `r ref('fselect()', aside = TRUE)` to directly start the optimization and select features.
```

The algorithm proceeds as follows

1. The `FSelector` proposes at least one feature subset or may propose multiple subsets to be evaluated in parallel, which can be controlled via the setting `batch_size`.
1. For each feature subset, the given learner is fitted on the task using the provided resampling and evaluated with the given measure.
1. All evaluations are stored in the archive of the `FSelectInstanceSingleCrit` object.

> 2. The terminator is queried. If we are allowed to continue, go to 1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The terminator is queried. If the termination criteria is not triggered, go to 1).
```

3. Determine the feature subset with the best-observed performance.
4. Store the best feature subset as the result in the instance object.

The best feature subset and the corresponding measured performance can be accessed from the instance:

```{r feature-selection-023}
  as.data.table(instance$result)[, .(features, classif.acc)]
```

> As in the forward selection example above, one can investigate all subset evaluations, as they are stored in the archive of the `FSelectInstanceSingleCrit` object and can be accessed by using `as.data.table()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in the forward selection example above, one can investigate all subset evaluations, which are stored in the archive of the `FSelectInstanceSingleCrit` object and can be accessed by using `as.data.table()`:
```

The trained model can now be used to make a prediction on external data.

### Optimizing Multiple Performance Measures {#sec-multicrit-featsel}

> You might want to use multiple criteria to evaluate the performance of the feature subsets. With `mlr3fselect`, the result is the collection of all feature subsets which are not Pareto-dominated by another subset. Again, we point out the similarity with HPO and refer to multi-objective hyperparameter optimization (see @sec-multi-metrics-tuning and @karl2022).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might want to use multiple criteria to evaluate the performance of the feature subsets. With `mlr3fselect`, the result is the collection of all feature subsets which are not Pareto-dominated\index{Pareto optimality} by another subset. Again, we point out the similarity with HPO and refer to multi-objective hyperparameter optimization (see @sec-multi-metrics-tuning and @karl2022).
```

We see different tradeoffs of sensitivity and specificity but no feature subset is dominated by another, i.e. has worse sensitivity *and* specificity than any other subset.

### Nested Resampling {#sec-autofselect}

As in tuning, the performance estimate of the finally selected feature subset is usually optimistically biased.

> To obtain unbiased performance estimates, nested resampling is required, and can be set up very analogously (see @sec-nested-resampling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain unbiased performance estimates, nested resampling is required and can be set up analogously to HPO (see @sec-nested-resampling).
```

We introduced filter and wrapper methods and covered the optimization of multiple performance measures.
Once you have learned about pipelines we will return to feature selection in @sec-pipelines-featsel.

> If you are interested in learning more about feature selection then we recommend an overview of methods in @chandrashekar2014; a more formal and detailed introduction to filters and wrappers is in @guyon2003, and a benchmark of filter methods was performed by @bommert2020.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in learning more about feature selection then we recommend an overview of methods in @chandrashekar2014; a more formal and detailed introduction to filters and wrappers is in @guyon2003, and a benchmark of filter methods was performed by @bommert2020.

@tbl-api-feature-selection summarizes the most important functions and methods seen in this chapter.
```
